***BIG DATA***

To store big data we need frameworks some of which are:  ->Cassandra
                                                        			   ->Hadoop
                                                         			   ->Spark

-> Hadoop : Hadoop uses a distributed file system to store data better known as Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS)
             	A huge file is broken into smaller chunks and stored on separate machines
            	This data is not only stored but also duplicated (replication factor of 3 - this makes hdfs fault tolerant)
           	which is stored on nodes. In this way if one machine stops working that data is already stored on other
            	machines.
            
            HDFS (storage unit) : HDFS is the storage layer of hadoop which stores big data in smaller chunks in different machines
                  		in a distributed manner and map reduce performs paralled processing on that data.
            
            Map Reduce (Processing unit) : 
                        -> Map reduce technique is used to process big data : 
                           		Here a lengthy task is broken down into smaller tasks.
                           		These tasks are alotted to separate machines which work in a parellel manner and 
                           		assemble the results at the end.
                           		This makes the processing easier and faster.
                           		This is known as Parallel Processing.
                    
                   1. Input
                   2. Split (input is split into sub-parts based on some character like full stop etc)
                   3. Mapper Phase (where occurences of a specific object is counted (for example
                      occurences of words in blocks))
                   4. Shuffle and sort (data is then shuffled and sorted on basis of same data. for example
                      similar words are grouped together)
                   5. Reduce Phase (all the similar data is counted for example counting the occurences of same 
                      words.)
                   
                   Finally all the result is displayed by aggregating the final output of reduce phase
                   
            YARN (yet another resource negotiator) 
                    -> is a resource manager for processes
                    -> processes job requests and manages cluster resources
                    
                    -> 1. Resource manager : assigns the resources
                    -> 2. Node manager : handles the nodes and monitors the resource usage in the nodes
                    -> 3. Cotainers : holds physical resources
                    
                    For example in map reduce method : 
                    	First the application manager requests the container from the node manager. then the node manager
                    	sends the resources to the resource manager